television transmissions expand outward
from the earth at speed of light and
there's a trope in science fiction that
aliens have learned everything about
humans by watching our television shows
so if you're four light years away you
see the light from the earth as it
looked
four years ago and some of that light
includes television transmissions as
radio waves are just another form of
electromagnetism it's all just light and
humans began serious television service
in the 1930s and by the modern era there
were thousands of powerful transmitters
pumping out electromagnetic radiation
for all to see
so aliens watching I Love Lucy or
footage from World War two and believing
it's all a part of our historical
documents well the first radio broadcast
started in the early 1900s so at the
time that I'm recording this video it's
late 2014 these transmissions have
escaped into space 114 years ago this
means that our transmissions have
reached a sphere of stars with a radius
of 114 lightyears
are there other stars in that volume of
space absolutely it's estimated there
are more than 14,000 stars within a
hundred light-years of Earth and most of
those are tiny red dwarf stars would
there be hundreds of sun-like stars as
we're discovering almost all of those
stars will have planets many of which
will be earth-like it's almost certain
that some of those stars or planets in
the habitable zone and could have
evolved life forms technology and
television sets and we're able to learn
of the stealth haze and the MACT our
chant of strength so will the signals be
powerful enough to stretch across the
vast distances of space and reach
another world so that many generations
of aliens can hang their hopes that
James Tiberius Kirk never visits their
planet with his loose morals
questionably applied prime directive
irresistible charms and pants a flame
with who knows what kind of interstellar
sti's well here's the problem broadcast
towers transmit their signals outward
in a sphere and this falls under the
inverse-square law the strength of the
signal decreases massively over distance
by the time you've gone a few light
years the signal is almost non-existent
aliens could build a huge receiver like
the Square Kilometre Array being built
right now but the signals they could
receive from Earth would be a billion
billion billion times weaker very hard
to pick out from the background
radiation of the universe and by
grabthar's hammer I assure you it's only
by focusing our transmissions and
beaming them straight at another star do
we stand a chance of alerting aliens of
our presence which like it or not is
something we've done so so does that
we've been broadcasting our existence
for hundreds of millions of years
they're a presence of oxygen in the
atmosphere of the earth would tell any
alien with a good enough telescope
there's life there and we did a whole
episode on this and we'll link that
episode in the credits for you
aliens could tell when we invented fire
when we developed steam technology and
what kind of cars we like to drive just
by looking at our atmosphere so don't
worry about our transmissions the jig is
up so what do you think it's a good idea
to alert aliens to our presence should
we get rid of all that oxygen in our
atmosphere keep a low profile tell us
the comments below thanks for watching
never miss an episode by clicking
subscribe our patreon community is the
reason these shows happen
we like to thank Michael Collins and
Jamie rich and the rest of the members
who support us in making great space and
astronomy content members get advance
access to episodes extras contests and
other shenanigans with J myself the rest
of the team want to get on the action
click here
okay also my hands aren't working so
much anymore yeah
alright but you should wear this this
steam coming out of my mouth is also
indication it is very cold so CG it's
yeah I'm on a comet right